# PyBer_Analysis

The code for the Pyber analysis is in the file PyBerChallenge.ipynb.  The first 83 lines of code relate to the foundation work from the module course material.  Cells 84 through 105 pertain to part 1 of the challenge and the rest of the file completes the plotting requested in part 2 of the challenge.

Looking at the summary DataFrame in cell 105 (image saved to Challenge.png in the analysis folder), the following conclusions can be drawn.  There are a number of drivers in the organization in the suburban and (particularly) the urban markets who are inactive or not very active.  This is not overly surprising as the drivers have the flexibility to work when they want to work.  Many drive as a way to supplement their primary income from another job.  Rides in urban markets cover shorter distances and shorter times, so the average fare per ride is less than that in rural markets.  This is also true, to a lesser extent, in suburban markets.  The demand for rides (due to higher populations) and the proximity of drivers to additional rides (upon completion of a drive) explains the higher volume of rides in the urban and (less so) suburban cities.

In studying the line plot from part 2 of the Challenge, each city type's sum of fares remained within a fairly confined band of revenue during the 4 months scrutinized in this study.  The first week of the year was a little slow, although the data for this week is just for January 1 through the 6th. Consequently, these results should probably be discounted.  If you ignore that week, weekly revenue ranges for each city type are: Urban - $1,939.02 to $2,470.03, Suburban - $974.34 to $1,412.74, and Rural - $67.65 to $501.24.  All three city types enjoyed strong weeks in the week ended 2/24, so investigation into the reason for this particular week's success would be warranted.
